Namaste!
Love!
Hate!
A game called About Love, Hate, and the Other
Ones…
I LOVE that game!
Watch a scene from this gameplay!
This character keeps saying “I hate you”!
This other character keeps saying “I love
you”!
I love you, I love you!
One person pushes the others away because
of hatred, while the other draws people towards
them with their love..!
A game, just using these mechanics!
Love, Hate!
In fact, if you google for “Opposite of
Love”, you will see words like hate, loathe,
detest.
From the Oxford Dictionaries.
But, my question is, is it really?
Is Hate the opposite of Love?
My dad used to scold me much!
I will really “get it” from him!
After all is said and done though, he will
call me, hug me, and tell me: “That kid
going on the street?
That stranger kid?
Who is making all those mistakes?
Do I even care?
I don’t care!
So, I am not giving that person advice.
I am not scolding him.
You, my son, I care for you.
I scold you BECAUSE I love you!”
As a kid, I didn’t get the logic of that
argument too well.
Apple launched an amazing ad quite some time
ago.
Part of the “Think Different” campaign
launched by Steve Jobs, decades ago.
It is a long advertisement, running for nearly
30 seconds.
The message would be something like, “You
can quote them, disagree with them, glorify
them or vilify them.
About the only thing you can’t do?
Is ignore them!
You can love them, you can hate them, but
you cannot IGNORE them!
Because they are the people who are going
to change the way the world is going to operate!
They are the challengers!
They are the rebels with a cause!
So, the opposite of LOVE, many of us wrongly
think it to be HATE.
But no!
The opposite of LOVE is INDIFFERENCE.
Like rain off the back of a domestic buffalo.
It is like saying, I don’t care whether
it is Rama Rajya or rule by Ravana himself!
Why would that be?
Well, the greatest gifts one can give?
There are two gifts that every person can
give!
Attention and Time.
I am choosing to not distract my brain into
focusing on other things, and I am dedicating
my attention towards you.
The other is, Time.
My time, instead of spending it on something
else, I am keeping all that away, I am with
you!
So, watching a movie, reading a book, listening
to a song, spending time with a wife, a husband,
a kid, a friend… buying a product, all of
these are about time and attention.
Just these two gifts!
Greatest gifts!
It is not money!
These two gifts!
So, only if you are giving these two gifts,
can you either LOVE or HATE.
The others, who say, “I don’t respect
you enough to even think of giving you these
two gifts” will just act indifferently.
That is why, we see the trio, Love, Hate,
Indifference.
That is why NOTA was born too.
It is good for a politician to win.
It is okay for a politician to lose too.
But, when a voter chooses NOTA, none of the
above, choosing to vote neither for one politician
nor for the other?
I don’t even approve of this system, I don’t
care who wins.
That is their stance.
Love me or hate me, but spare me your indifference!
I am here, in front of you!
Towering above you!
Can’t you feel my presence?!
Are you going to ignore me?!
That is that indifferent attitude.
They have researched about this matter.
Around ten years ago, there was this research
done about the brain.
In a university in the United Kingdom.
Two parts of the brain, marked in red here,
they are called Putamen and Insula..
They tracked which parts of the brain lit
up in magnetic resonance imaging, when a person
was REALLY HATING something.
They tracked which parts of the brain lit
up when a person was REALLY ROMANTICALLY LOVING
something.
Surprise!
Both the regions were the same!
It is the same protective, antagonistic attitude,
that is triggered in extreme hate and in extreme
love!
That is the finding of that research.
Many people fall for this common myth.
They think there is LOVE at one side of the
spectrum.
And far away on the other side, there is HATE.
Two extremes.
A person is either here or there.
But, that belief has been proven to be unfounded.
The current understanding is, Love may be
an extreme, Hatred may be the other extreme,
but they are actually quite close to each
other, and the third thing that is far away
from both of these is the Indifferent Attitude.
If you do some research about Apple, for example,
some customer research, the fellow who LOVES
Apple, if you ask them why, they may quote
two reasons.
Pick the other person, who really HATES it,
if you ask them why, they may end up quoting
the VERY SAME two reasons!
Similarly for Ilaiyaraaja’s music, the same
reasons that make a person like it may end
up being the reasons somebody else doesn’t
like it!
That’s the beauty there!
So, if you want to convert your customers,
the one thing you need to do is — let them
love you, let them hate you, but just ensure
they are not indifferent towards you.
Just ensure they don’t say “I don’t
care if you exist.
Or, if you don’t exist!”
Thiruvalluvar himself has talked about it.
In Kural 360, he has touched upon the concept.
Kaamam veguli mayakkkam ivmoonran naamam kedakkedum
noi.
That is, “Don’t love, don’t hate, don’t
be ignorant.
If you are going to be stuck in either of
these three, you are going to be defeated
by the diseases of life.
If you want to escape from these three, do
not love, do not hate, don’t stay ignorant”.
Thus went the interesting twist he gave to
it.
So, beware of the indifferent customer, indifferent
lover, indifferent son or daughter, indifferent
friend or enemy!
Thank you!